discovery/README.md, before:

# command-schema-discovery

Discover and extract CLI command schemas from help output.

This crate provides a library for parsing help text from CLI commands and extracting structured schemas. It supports multiple help format conventions and includes confidence scoring and quality metrics.

## Key Components

- `HelpParser` - Multi-strategy help text parser
- `CommandExtractor` - Extract schemas by executing commands
- `SchemaCache` - Fingerprint-based caching
- `parse_help_text()` - Convenience function for parsing

## Supported Formats

- GNU style (`--long`, `-s`)
- Clap (Rust) / Cobra (Go) / Argparse (Python) style
- NPM-style subcommand listings
- BSD-style flags
- Generic section-based help

## Quick Example

```rust
use command_schema_discovery::parse_help_text;

let result = parse_help_text("git", include_str!("git-help.txt"));
if let Some(schema) = result.schema {
    println!("Found {} subcommands", schema.subcommands.len());
}
```

## Features

- Multiple parsing strategies with automatic detection
- Confidence scoring and quality metrics
- Extraction reports with diagnostics
- Optional `clap` feature for CLI integration

## Documentation

See the [repository root](https://github.com/ex1tium/command-schema) for CLI usage and integration examples.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: add support for parsing man and mdoc macro formats
- Implemented a legacy man macro parser in `man.rs` to handle man pages.
- Added mdoc macro parser in `mdoc.rs` for parsing mdoc formatted documents.
- Created a module `mod.rs` to manage the roff parsing strategies.
- Updated the main parser strategy to include man and mdoc formats.
- Added tests for parsing rendered and raw man documents, ensuring correct extraction of flags, arguments, and subcommands.
- Introduced new fixtures for testing man and mdoc parsing with various scenarios.

discovery/README.md, after:

# command-schema-discovery

Discover and extract CLI command schemas from help output.

This crate provides a library for parsing help text from CLI commands and extracting structured schemas. It supports multiple help format conventions and includes confidence scoring and quality metrics.

## Key Components

- `HelpParser` - Multi-strategy help text parser
- `CommandExtractor` - Extract schemas by executing commands
- `SchemaCache` - Fingerprint-based caching
- `parse_help_text()` - Convenience function for parsing

## Supported Formats

- GNU style (`--long`, `-s`)
- Clap (Rust) / Cobra (Go) / Argparse (Python) style
- NPM-style subcommand listings
- BSD-style flags
- Man pages:
  - Raw roff source (`mdoc` and legacy `man` macros)
  - Rendered manual output (e.g. `GIT-REBASE(1)` with `NAME`/`SYNOPSIS`/`OPTIONS` sections)
- Generic section-based help

When man-page structure is detected, man parsing is used as the primary extraction source.
If man extraction yields insufficient entities, parser fallbacks continue with other strategies.
Raw roff extraction is treated as high-confidence due to explicit macro structure.

## Quick Example

```rust
use command_schema_discovery::parse_help_text;

let result = parse_help_text("git", include_str!("git-help.txt"));
if let Some(schema) = result.schema {
    println!("Found {} subcommands", schema.subcommands.len());
}
```

## Features

- Multiple parsing strategies with automatic detection
- Confidence scoring and quality metrics
- Extraction reports with diagnostics
- Optional `clap` feature for CLI integration

## Documentation

See the [repository root](https://github.com/ex1tium/command-schema) for CLI usage and integration examples.

## License

MIT
